src/plugins/page/README.md, before:

# Plugin - page

## Description

According to the Adobe core-components documentation, any component that somehow shows up, can push the event `cmp:show` to the adobeDataLayer (slider-items, etc).
This is also true for the page component itself.

So, in order to get the page data, you have to listen for all `cmp:show` adobeDataLayer-events, get its `pageInfo` reference, get the state of this referenced component, then check, if the `@type` is probably of a type, that reveals that it is the page-component, and if thats the case, you can access the page data. And all this effort just to get such a simple information like the `dc:title` field of the page.

This plugin helps you to do the 'heavy-lifting'. It listens for the `cmp:show` event, resolves the component type and simply provides you a convenient accessor for the page properties. It also pushes a customizable 'page-load' event to the adobeDataLayer if all is done.

- `name`: page
- `dependencies`: none
- `events`: ['cmp:show']

## Installation & Config

```javascript
// Example
plugins: [
  page: {
    component_types: [
      { '@type': '*/components/page' },
      { '@type': '*/components/page/content' },
      { '@type': '*/components/page/press' },
      { '@type': '*/components/page/event' },
      { '@type': '*/components/global/integrator-page' },
      { '@type': '*/components/global/page' }
    ],
    page_load_event: 'load'
	}
]

// => result
// provides functionalities for accessing page properties - see Providers, below
```

**Config**

- `component_types`:

  - Array of tests, that define the component-type
  - One could also simply use wildcards such as `'*components/page*'` - then all other cases are matched and you do not have to list all types, that identify a page.

- `page_load_event`:
  - the configurable part of the event-name that is pushed to the adobeDataLayer

## Providers

```javascript
acdl_helper.page.get() // returns the page properties
```

Commit message:

Feature for delayed page-load event in plugin page

src/plugins/page/README.md, after:

# Plugin - page

## Description

According to the Adobe core-components documentation, any component that somehow shows up, can push the event `cmp:show` to the adobeDataLayer (slider-items, etc).
This is also true for the page component itself.

So, in order to get the page data, you have to listen for all `cmp:show` adobeDataLayer-events, get its `pageInfo` reference, get the state of this referenced component, then check, if the `@type` is probably of a type, that reveals that it is the page-component, and if thats the case, you can access the page data. And all this effort just to get such a simple information like the `dc:title` field of the page.

This plugin helps you to do the 'heavy-lifting'. It listens for the `cmp:show` event, resolves the component type and simply provides you a convenient accessor for the page properties. It also pushes a customizable 'page-load' event to the adobeDataLayer if all is done.

The page-load event, that is pushed to the dataLayer by this plugin can also be made dependent on other dataLayer events in order to solve asynchronous challenges (see config documentation below).

- `name`: page
- `dependencies`: none
- `events`: ['cmp:show']

## Installation & Config

```javascript
// Example
plugins: [
  page: {
    component_types: [
      { '@type': '*/components/page' },
      { '@type': '*/components/page/content' },
      { '@type': '*/components/page/press' },
      { '@type': '*/components/page/event' },
      { '@type': '*/components/global/integrator-page' },
      { '@type': '*/components/global/page' }
    ],
    page_load_event: 'load',
    delay_until: [], // optional
	}
]

// => result
// provides functionalities for accessing page properties - see Providers, below
```

**Config**

- `component_types`:

  - Array of tests, that define the component-type
  - One could also simply use wildcards such as `'*components/page*'` - then all other cases are matched and you do not have to list all types, that identify a page.

- `page_load_event`:

  - the configurable part of the event-name that is pushed to the adobeDataLayer

- `delay_until`:

  - Array of dataLayer events. i.e. `['user:authenticated', 'cart:loaded']`
  - As a result, the acdl_helper page-load event will not be pushed to the dataLayer before those events were pushed to the dataLayer.
  - This is useful for asynchronous loaded states on the website, like user-login state or asynchrounous loaded shopping-carts, where one wants to make sure, that the page-load is not triggered before those informations are already in the dataLayer, in order to be send along with the first page-load event.
  - ⚠️ ATTENTION: If the defined `delay_until` event(s) will never be pushed to the dataLayer the `acdl_helper` page-load event will never be pushed! Make sure, that the `delay_until` events are relaiable emitted (i.i if the user is not logged in, the event has to be also pushed to the dataLayer but with a different state - for example: _false_)

## Providers

```javascript
acdl_helper.page.get() // returns the page properties
```

## Release Notes

### v1.2.0

- Feature: Delay the acdl_helper page-load event, by waiting for any other dataLayer event(s) - handle with care...
